 # CEG 4350/6350 Project Spring 2019 
 ### Due day: April 26th, (Friday)
 Create a producer process and a consumer process sharing data.  The producer generates total 100 integer data randomly, and the consumer process reads all those data.  The data generated by the producer could be stored in a file by the producer; and the data consumed (i.e., read) by the consumer could be stored in another file by the consumer.

The file of produced data and the file of consumed data could be printed to verify that the two processes have cooperated correctly; that means, each data item is not lost and not consumed more than once. 

*Interprocess communication between producer and consumer (to share data) can be implemented using any two of the following **four methods**:*

    1.Use a Pipe to transfer 100 data from the producer to the consumer. Note: a Pipe (anonymous pipe, named pipe, or an equivalent) should be created using a system call, instead of piping the (standard) output of one process to the (standard) input of another. Refer to Section 3.7.4 in 10thedition (or Section 3.6.3 in 9th edition.

    2.Use either the direct message passing or indirect message passing (using a mailbox, a message queue, or a similar one) to transfer 100 data from the producer to the consumer.

    3.Use the sockets to transfer 100 data from the producer to the consumer. Note: The producer and consumer processes can be executed on the same machine (or on different machines).  Note: A reference for socket programming is posted on the Pilot (in the Syllabus and Project Descriptions module).
    
    4.Use the shared memory and semaphores for the implementation of the logical ring-buffer (that can store up to 10 data items) and the synchronization.
    
**Programming Languages and Operating Systems**:  
Any programming language can be used for each implementation on any machine running any OS.

**References**:

    * Neil Matthew and Richard Stones, Beginning Linux Programming, 4th edition, Wrox, 2007.
    * John Shapley Gray, Interprocess Communication in Linux: The Nooks and Crannies, Prentice Hall, 2003. 
    * K. A. Robbins and S. Robbins, Unix System Programming: Communication, Concurrency, and Threads, Prentice Hall, 2003.
    * W. Richard Stevens and Stephen A. Rago, Advanced Programming in the UNIX Environment, 3rd edition, Addison Wesley, 2013. 
    * For socket programming in Java, refer to the Chapter 4 of Distributed Systems: Concepts and Design, 5th edition, which is posted on Pilot.
    
**Reporting**: 

A hardcopy report, including the description of design, source codes, result, and discussion.  (due on April 26th, Friday) In your project report, you can include the following:
    
    * A summary describing what IPC methods are implemented; what languages and OS were used for the implementation of each IPC method used.

    * For each IPC method used,
        * Description of design: description the system calls used and the behavior of each process. 
        * Source code. 

    * Result: printing of random integer values in the order they were generated by the producer, and printing of random integer values in the order they were read/received by the consumer.  

    * Overall Discussion : Any technical things that you learned (doing the project) that you want share with other students in this class. Any technical things that can demonstrate how much effort you made on the project. 
**Grading**: 

Programming project 30% {design and description of design 8%, documentation 8%, correctness 8%, discussion 6%}